Add documentation for deploying packaged Kedro projects on Databricks (#2595)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/deployment/databricks/databricks_deployment_workflow.md

```

Once it is created, activate it:

```bash
conda activate iris-databricks
```

With your Conda environment activated, install Kedro and the Databricks CLI:

```bash
pip install kedro databricks-cli --upgrade
```

### Authenticate the Databricks CLI

**Now, you must authenticate the Databricks CLI with your Databricks instance.**

[Refer to the Databricks documentation](https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/cli/index.html#set-up-authentication) for a complete guide on how to authenticate your CLI. The key steps are:

1. Create a personal access token for your user on your Databricks instance.
2. Run `databricks configure --token`.
3. Enter your token and Databricks host when prompted.
4. Run `databricks fs ls dbfs:/` at the command line to verify your authentication.

### Create a new Kedro project

Create a Kedro project by using the following command in your local environment:

```bash
kedro new --starter=databricks-iris
```

This command creates a new Kedro project using the Databricks Iris starter template. Name your new project `iris-databricks` for consistency with the rest of this guide.

### Create an entry point for Databricks

> The default entry point of a Kedro project uses a Click command line interface (CLI), which is not compatible with Databricks. To run your project as a Databricks job, you must define a new entry point specifically for use on Databricks.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

```{note}
Because you are no longer using the default entry-point for Kedro, you will not be able to run your project with the options it usually provides. Instead, the `databricks_run` entry point in the above code and in the Databricks Iris starter contains a simple implementation of two options:
- `--package_name` (required): the package name (defined in `setup.py`) of your packaged project.
- `--env`: specifies a [Kedro configuration environment](../../configuration/configuration_basics.md#configuration-environments) to load for your run.
- `--conf-source`: specifies the location of the `conf/` directory to use with your Kedro project.
```

### Plan your project's output

You will not be able to directly see your project's log output when it is run as a Databricks job. You will need to decide on and implement a strategy for storing your project's results. Some examples are:

- Write the result of a data engineering pipeline to a managed delta table.
- Upload metrics from a machine learning model to MLflow.
- Save a dataset as a CSV file in DBFS.

In this guide, your project will save its logs to a location in DBFS (`/dbfs/FileStore/iris-databricks/info.log`).

> **The `databricks-iris` starter is already configured to save logs in this location.** The configuration used to achieve this can be found in the `conf/base/logging.yml` file.

Reviewer: On the other hand, related to my comment above, I like this approach of not explaining what's in `logging.yml` to avoid interrupting the how-to. But maybe we could add a note at the bottom.

### Package your project

To package your Kedro project for deployment on Databricks, you must create a Wheel (`.whl`) file, which is a binary distribution of your project. In the root directory of your Kedro project, run the following command:

```bash
kedro package
```

This command generates a `.whl` file in the `dist` directory within your project's root directory.

### Upload project data and configuration to DBFS

> ```{note}
> A Kedro project's configuration and data do not get included when it is packaged. They must be stored somewhere accessible to allow your packaged project to run.
> ```
> 
> Your packaged Kedro project needs access to data and configuration in order to run. Therefore, you will need to upload your project's data and configuration to a location accessible to Databricks. In this guide, we will store the data on the Databricks File System (DBFS).

Reviewer: The note seems redundant given the paragraph right below?

```suggestion
Your packaged Kedro project needs access to data and configuration in order to run. Therefore, you will need to upload your project's data and configuration to a location accessible to Databricks. In this guide, we will store the data on the Databricks File System (DBFS).
```

Author: I think it is redundant, but the contents in the note might not be totally clear to an inexperienced user. They may assume that their data and config got packaged and that this is an optional step. I want to avoid this if I can by making it explicit. That being said, I'm only borderline about keeping the note, if you don't think this reasoning makes sense we can remove it.

The Databricks Iris starter contains a [catalog](../../data/data_catalog.md#the-data-catalog) that is set up to access data stored in DBFS (`<project_root>/conf/`). You will point your project to use configuration stored on DBFS using the `--conf-source` option when you create your job on Databricks.

There are several ways to upload data to DBFS: you can use the [DBFS API](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/databricks/dev-tools/api/latest/dbfs), the [`dbutils` module](https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/databricks-utils.html) in a Databricks notebook or the [Databricks CLI](https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/cli/dbfs-cli.html). In this guide, it is recommended to use the Databricks CLI because of the convenience it offers.

- **Upload your project's data and config**: at the command line in your local environment, use the following Databricks CLI commands to upload your project's locally stored data and configuration to DBFS:

```bash

> databricks fs cp --recursive <project_root>/data/ dbfs:/FileStore/iris-databricks/data

Reviewer: Maybe we can make these commands easier to copy-paste by suggesting a `cd <project_root>` way earlier? (which in any case the user must have already done to do `kedro package`, so maybe it's not even necessary and we could just say "from the project root, use the following Databricks CLI commands...")

databricks fs cp --recursive <project_root>/conf/ dbfs:/FileStore/iris-databricks/conf
```

The `--recursive` flag ensures that the entire folder and its contents are uploaded. You can list the contents of the destination folder in DBFS using the following command:

```bash
databricks fs ls dbfs:/FileStore/iris-databricks/data
```

You should see the contents of the project's `data/` directory printed to your terminal:

```bash
01_raw
02_intermediate
03_primary
04_feature
05_model_input
06_models
07_model_output
08_reporting
```

## Deploy and run your Kedro project using the workspace UI

To run your packaged project on Databricks, login to your Databricks account and perform the following steps in the workspace:

> 1. **Create a new job**: In the Databricks workspace, navigate to the `Worfklows` tab and click `Create Job`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Create a new job**: In the Databricks workspace, click the `New` button, then `Job`:
```

this is more accurate?

Author: You can do either of these 🙂 I changed this to:

"navigate to the `Worfklows` tab and click `Create Job` or click the `New` button, then `Job`".

![Create Databricks job](../../meta/images/databricks_create_new_job.png)

> 2. **Create a new job cluster**: Create a dedicated [job cluster](https://docs.databricks.com/clusters/index.html) to run your job by clicking on the drop-down menu in the `Cluster` field:

Reviewer: "If you don't have a cluster yet" or something like that?

Author: Databricks will provide you with a 'default' job cluster, though you shouldn't use this to run your job and you should properly configure one for this job. I have added a sentence to make sure the user understands this.

In addition, this job cluster is far overpowered for the demands of `databricks-iris` and running it will incur a lot of unnecessary cost.

This is why your job run failed, the default job cluster tries to load some secrets that we haven't set, giving you the error you saw:

<img width="626" alt="Screenshot 2023-05-30 at 12 25 09" src="https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/assets/37243923/5a5eb173-8542-4a63-913b-36ac6f7d4de5">

Reviewer: Weird - even creating a new cluster makes this fail. Right after "add new cluster", if I navigate to Advanced I'll see these environment variables.

```
PYSPARK_PYTHON=/databricks/python3/bin/python3
PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL_USER={{secrets/private/PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL_USER}}
PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL_SECRET={{secrets/private/PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL_SECRET}}
```

If I try to remove them, the following validation error appears:

![image](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/assets/316517/3bfd11b2-edcf-4535-ad9e-c80d5cb19580)

Maybe I'm missing something?

![Create Databricks job cluster](../../meta/images/databricks_create_job_cluster.png)

Configure the job cluster with the following settings:

- In the `name` field enter `kedro_deployment_demo`.

> - Select the radio button for `Single node`.

Reviewer: I got confused here because, where there is an existing cluster, the UI I see is to configure the task first. Worth clarifying?

![image](https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/assets/316517/1f1f3619-4d2c-4714-854f-ff5a4f919389)

Author: You're right, this is worth clarifying, as to create a cluster you have to click on the drop down. This is a good point, I will make this change.

Author: I added a revised image and wording to this part of the guide to make it clear that a user needs to create a new job cluster specifically for this job and shows them how to do it.

- In the dropdown menu for the `Type` field, select `Python wheel`.
- In the `Package name` field, enter `iris_databricks`. This is the name of your package as defined in your project's `src/setup.py` file.
- In the `Entry Point` field, enter `databricks_run`. This is the name of the [entry point](#create-an-entry-point-for-databricks) to run your package from.
- Ensure the job cluster you created in step two is selected in the dropdown menu for the `Cluster` field.
- In the `Dependent libraries` field, click `Add` and upload [your project's `.whl` file](#package-your-project), making sure that the radio buttons for `Upload` and `Python Whl` are selected for the `Library Source` and `Library Type` fields.
- In the `Parameters` field, enter the following list of runtime options:

```bash
["--conf-source", "/dbfs/FileStore/iris-databricks/conf", "--package-name", "iris_databricks"]
```

The final configuration for your job should look the same as the following:

![Configure Databricks job](../../meta/images/databricks_configure_new_job.png)

Click `Create` and then `Confirm and create` in the following pop-up asking you to name the job.

> 4. **Run the job**: Click `Run now` in the top-right corner of your new job's page to start a run of the job. The status of your run can be viewed in the `Runs` tab of your job's page. Navigate to the `Runs` tab and track the progress of your run:

Reviewer: At this point I got an error:

> `Run result unavailable: run failed with error message
 Unexpected failure while waiting for the cluster (0529-113546-pocghr6r) to be ready: Cluster 0529-113546-pocghr6r is in unexpected state Terminated: SECRET_RESOLUTION_ERROR(SERVICE_FAULT): databricks_error_message:Failed to fetch secrets referred to in Env Vars.`

<img width="1214" alt="image" src="https://github.com/kedro-org/kedro/assets/316517/201aadee-3921-4b41-9f5b-13bd130746ed">

Author: See my comment above for why this happened!

Really appreciate you testing these docs manually 🙂.

![Databricks job status](../../meta/images/databricks_job_status.png)

This page also shows an overview of all past runs of your job. As you only just started your job run, it's status will be `Pending`. A status of `Pending` indicates that the cluster is being started and your code is waiting to run.

The following things happen when you run your job:

- The job cluster is provisioned and started (job status: `Pending`).
- The packaged Kedro project and all its dependencies are installed (job status: `Pending`)
- The packaged Kedro project is run from the specified `databricks_run` entry point (job status: `In Progress`).
- The packaged code finishes executing and the job cluster is stopped (job status: `Succeeded`).

A run will take roughly six to seven minutes.

> When the status of your run is `Succeeded`, your job has successfully finished executing. You can now view the logs that your project produced while it was running. To retrieve the log file from the [location in DBFS where it was saved](#plan-your-projects-output), use the following `databricks CLI` command at your local command line with the `iris-databrick` conda environment activated:

Reviewer: Maybe worth adding a `## Troubleshooting` section to this page

Reviewer: Also

```suggestion
When the status of your run is `Succeeded`, your job has successfully finished executing. You can now view the logs that your project produced while it was running. To retrieve the log file from the [location in DBFS where it was saved](#plan-your-projects-output), use the following `databricks CLI` command at your local command line with the `iris-databricks` conda environment activated:
```

```bash
databricks fs cp dbfs:/FileStore/iris-databricks/info.log .
```

This will download the log file from DBFS to your local environment. You can view the contents of the `info.log` file in any text editor, they will look similar to the following:

```bash
...
2023-05-19 14:38:06,333 - kedro.io.data_catalog - INFO - Loading data from 'example_iris_data' (SparkDataSet)...
2023-05-19 14:38:12,077 - kedro.io.data_catalog - INFO - Loading data from 'parameters' (MemoryDataSet)...
2023-05-19 14:38:12,079 - kedro.pipeline.node - INFO - Running node: split: split_data([example_iris_data,parameters]) -> [X_train@pyspark,X_test@pyspark,y_train@pyspark,y_test@pyspark]
...
```

By following these steps, you packaged your Kedro project and manually ran it as a job on Databricks using the workspace UI.

## Resources for automating deployment to Databricks

Up to this point, this page has described a manual workflow for deploying and running a project on Databricks. The process can be automated in two ways:

> - [Use the Databricks API.](#how-to-use-the-databricks-api-to-automate-deployment-of-a-kedro-project)
> - [Use the Databricks CLI.](#how-to-use-the-databricks-cli-to-automate-deployment-of-a-kedro-project)

Reviewer: Nitpicks:

```suggestion
- [Use the Databricks API](#how-to-use-the-databricks-api-to-automate-deployment-of-a-kedro-project).
- [Use the Databricks CLI](#how-to-use-the-databricks-cli-to-automate-deployment-of-a-kedro-project).
```
